Bryan Yee
Ms. De Freitas
NBE3U1
20 January 2023

            <center>Indigenous Literature: The Purpose of Rewriting The English Curriculum</center>
            Indigenous literature is a window into the rich cultural heritage of the Indigenous people and not just a collection of stories and myths. It is a powerful tool for understanding the ongoing struggle for cultural preservation as it passes down Indigenous knowledge to future generations. When I was informed that the grade 11 English curriculum was being modified to introduce the understanding of Indigenous literature, I was quite skeptical. I was curious as to why the school board made this decision and what effect it would have on my school’s education. It brought up questions on how Indigenous literature would compare to studying traditional Shakespearean plays. What was the purpose behind the change? Now that the current semester is wrapping up, the answer to this question has revealed itself to me. Indigenous literature matters because it actively works towards connecting the community by promoting diversity and introducing new perspectives. This is valuable because it will have an impact on the individual by allowing personal growth and improvement in character.

            Diversity is the practice of including people from a wide range of different backgrounds. Embracing diversity can lead to the development of a stronger and more connected community. This means that people must actively work towards creating an equitable society where everyone feels respected and involved, regardless of their demographic. Inclusivity through diversity can help improve connections in the community by helping people understand each other. This is because when people’s cultural backgrounds are valued by others, they are more likely to feel a sense of connection. However, I’ve noticed that embracing diversity is often difficult for some people because of the lack of exposure to other cultures. I realized that Indigenous literature can solve this because of its potential to educate people on diversity. Looking back at my previous reflections, the idea that my understanding of diversity improved from this course revealed itself. At the beginning of this school year, our first unit reflection was to answer the question, “How do we learn to be human?” The text that was studied at the time, was an insightful blog by Bob Joseph that informed the many ways to build relationships with the Indigenous people. This form of Indigenous literature covered various values that are commonly found within Indigenous beliefs. An example of a trait that many Indigenous people value was being trustworthy (Joseph). Exploring this characteristic was very beneficial for me because it increased my exposure to a culture that was not mine. The experience I had when reading the blog demonstrated to me how Indigenous literature can assist those who struggle to embrace their community’s diversity. Furthermore, my written reflection on the blog can also show how this diversity can enhance connections in the community. I found that I was able to discover similarities between my own cultural beliefs and the values listed on the Indigenous blog. I mentioned how loyalty, a valued trait in Asian culture, resembled the Indigenous value of trust. I was able to recognize how when there is trust, loyalty is likely to follow, and when there is loyalty, trust is likely to be built. Being able to identify parallels with my own culture allowed me to feel a sense of connection with a different culture. 

            In addition to the blog, we also analyzed various satirical stories written by Indigenous authors. One story that stood out to me was Totem by Thomas King. The plot was about a group of museum employees who were frantically trying to remove a totem pole from their exhibition (King). I made the connection that the dynamic between the totem pole and the employees resembled the conflicts between the Indigenous people and the Canadian government. When the story began to symbolize real-world events, it made me backtrack and reflect on the Indigenous culture that I learned from the blog. I deduced that the Indigenous value of trust and the vast history of broken promises between the Indigenous people and the government had a direct correlation. Therefore, studying Indigenous literature has made an improvement of my character by filling a gap in my cultural knowledge.

            In every conflict, there will always be more than just one side of the story. Before making any assumptions, it is important to explore alternative points of view. This is necessary in order to gain a full understanding of any given situation. Reading the literature in the course helped show me the importance of viewing all perspectives and the effect they can play on my community. When I was introduced to the Indigenous people’s point of view, I felt more empathetic toward the issues that they had to face. It allowed me to be more open-minded and appreciative that they were able to share their way of thinking. Through the newly shared perspectives given by Indigenous literature, I was able to discover a new sense of connection and support for the community. There are many examples of Indigenous literature that we covered that demonstrate the role that perspectives play when bringing the community together. One example that stood out to me was the relationship between Arthur and Maureen in the play Cottagers and Indians. In the play, the two characters are locked in a constant struggle for control over their local lake. However, early on in the play, both characters subtly mention the fact that they recently lost someone they loved (Taylor). It was clear to me that either character was unable to acknowledge this key detail because they were too concentrated on their own perspective. In the last few pages of the story, the characters suddenly start to realize the intentions behind the other person’s actions. Once they began to relate to their shared experience of losing a family member, they were able to arrive at a mutual understanding. This one alteration in their behaviour single-handedly shifted their perception of each other, allowing them to reconcile and find common ground.

            As the characters opened themselves up to new perspectives, I too was able to gain new insight through their experiences. When we first started reading the book as a class, I found that I was naturally inclined into siding with Arthur over Maureen. I believe that this happened because, from a surface level, Maureen only criticizes Arthur to prevent him from raising awareness for his culture. After reading the book, I have been able to become more aware of Maureen’s perspective. Understanding the reasonings behind her actions helped me come to the conclusion that neither character is truly in the wrong. My personal growth is reflected by Indigenous literature teaching me to accept opposing views to ensure that my own perspective is free from any possible biases or limitations. 

            The significance of Indigenous literature lies in its ability to connect the community by introducing diversity and opposing perspectives. Those who are capable of learning from this ability are able to develop their character growth. For me personally, being given the opportunity to find connections between my culture and Indigenous culture has been very advantageous for me. Investigating the depth of how their past experiences influenced their values really raised my appreciation for diversity as a whole. Along with diversity, I was also introduced to a new point of view. The conflict between Arthur and Maureen helped me realize how opening myself up to new perspectives can avoid the pitfalls of having biased opinions. Although it was very unexpected, the change to teaching Indigenous literature can have many positive impacts on you and your community. Before the next students in the grade below jump to any conclusions on this course, just know that you can never fully grasp the significance behind Indigenous literature until you dive in head first.

            <center>Work Cited</center>
King, Thomas. Totem. HarperCollins, 1993.

Joseph, Bob. 7 Tips on Building Relationships with Indigenous Peoples. https://www.ictinc.ca/blog/7-tips-on-building-relationships-with-indigenous-peoples. 

Taylor, Drew Hayden, and Leanne Betasamosake Simpson. Cottagers and Indians: A Play. Talonbooks, 2019.

